1. 3 reasons why is because some web platforms doesn't support certain features that JS has which forces the dev to always takes those into consideration, in the second part of this lab where we had a specific bug where we were assign the variable to the wrong data type would also be a pain to remember because this would lead to unexpect behaviors since if the user on the client side was inputting random variables it could lead to bugs and some things breaking, and trying to maintain an asynchronous environment since its very hard to predict this since hardware for each device is different. 
2. I think they made it loosely typed and asynchronous since once the user fetches the site the server would have no control over it sicne the site is completely in the users hands now, so I think this may be the reason why they made JS like this so sites are more flexable to every device. 
3. The difference between complied language and an interpheted one is that complied is directly handled and translated into machine code which then a complier reads whereas an interpheted language is read directly and executed line by line by an interpheter. JS would be an example of interpheted and some ups and downsides of this would be that its very flexable across platforms and a downside would be that it performs much slower than complied languages.
4. Mastering vanilla JS would allow us to understand the ins and outs of how JS operates, if we were to start off by learning a framework we would understand how Js would operate within the Framework but not how JS would operate under other types of frameworks. If we were to learn the vanilla JS we would basically understand how each framework works at a core level. An example of this would be like learning a language we would learn the alphabet first to see the pure basics of words (vanilla JS) and then learning the grammar and applying the letters we learned to create words (JS frameworks)
5. This lab heavily impacts our project because this teaches us the basics of JS which would allow us as basic developer to know the limitations and advantages that we could use to apply to our code within this project. I could apply this by knowing that JS has a very loose typing so I can make sure that when we write the JS code for our product we take that into consideration. 